We are going to remember
which mode we selected,
whether it was light mode or dark mode.
So the first thing we need to do
is we need to define some states.
So initially,
we're gonna be in light mode,
might not be a preference for everyone.
It's not for me.
So that's why we're going to give
the option to switch between light and
dark mode, so states we have light,
All right, so when we turn on the machine,
we have this switch mode button that
goes between light and dark mode.
And you'll see that it
does that automatically.
Again, that's using those data
attribute selectors in CSS
in putting this directly on
the state's You're on the DOM node.
But of course, when we turn it on switch
to dark mode and turn it off, we see that
it forgets our mode, which isn't something
that we are expecting as a user.
So that's why we could add a pseudo
state which is the history state.
And so we'll just call this hist or
previously selected mode,
whatever you wanna call the state,
it doesn't matter.
What does matter is
the type that you give it.
We want to say that
this is a history node.
And what this is going to do
is it's going to remember
which one of these child
states we were last in.
So, now we could transition
directly to visible .hist and
so that's going to go to either the last
remembered child state, light or dark.
Or it's going to go to
the initial state by default.
So when we turn it on, switch to dark
mode, turn it off, and turn it on again.
You can see it goes to dark mode.
And just to show you how exactly that
works, let's console dot log, this dates.
When we turn it on and
go to dark mode you'll see that we
have what's called a history value.
Now don't worry too
much about this object.
all it's doing is it's keeping
track of the the current value and
the last remembered values
of those nested states.
So in the visible state we're
seeing that the current is dark.
And and
we're remembering each of the history
states in each of the parents states,
so just visible in this case.
So that means when we turn off and
when we turn on, we have some way to
reference what that last date was.
And so that's how it knows to
go directly back to that state.
Brian asks, Is there any preferred naming
convention that the community has for
coming up with naming your history states?
Now by the community,
you have to realise that state charts are,
Definitely not a new idea.
They've been around for three decades and
they're using many, many languages.
So if we search the charts,
history states and
we go to images, we could see that
people name it all sorts of stuff.
Generally people like to name it this.
A single letter H.
And so you could do that.
That tends to work pretty well for
most use cases.
So either H,
I like it being hits just because
I have a little bit of an aversion
to those single letter names.
I'd like them to be.
A little bit more descriptive.
So really, it's up to you.
And you could always look at prior arts
and what people have been doing in other
languages for a really long time to
see exactly how to name your states.